# Clustering documents to compress inverted index 
Project for the **Information Retrieval and Web Search** course for the 2023/2024 academic year.
> For further information, see IRWS_Project_Report.pdf

## Requirements

- `rich` is a Python library for rich text and beautiful formatting in the terminal.

	```
	pip install rich
	```
- `matplotlib` is a comprehensive library for creating static, animated, and interactive visualizations.

	```
	pip install matplotlib
	```
## Assumptions
We assume that the medoid for each cluster is the first document inserted.
In the `stream_cluster` function, in the `clustering.py` file, we find a commented part of the code where the **medoid** for each cluster is calculated according to the **jaccard distance**, uncomment this part to perform the calculation of the actual medoid, keep in mind that this will make the computation extremely slow and inefficient.


## Structure
```
TSP_Clustering_IRWS/
│
├── README.md
├── clustering.py
├── compression.py
├── create_dictionary.py
├── log.py
├── tsp.py
├── main.py
│
├── blocks/
├── plot/
└── collections/
    ├── lyrl2004_tokens_test_pt0.dat
    └── lyrl2004_tokens_test_pt1.dat
```

Before running the program you need to create the `/blocks` folder. The `lyrl2004_tokens_test_pt0.dat` and `lyrl2004_tokens_test_pt1.dat` collections are compressed in a folder, before running you need to extract them.

- **`blocks/`**: will contain the blocks generated by SPIMI-invert.
- **`plot/`**: will contain the output graphs.
- **`report/`**: contains the `report.pdf` with information relating to the project.
- **`collections/`**: the `lyrl2004_tokens_test_pt0.dat` and `lyrl2004_tokens_test_pt1.dat` collections are compressed in a zip folder, before running you need to extract them.

## Usage

```
python3 main.py
```




